# Measure Android Gradle Plugin

Measure Android Gradle Plugin is used to complement the features of Measure Android SDK. To integrate Measure in your
project, please follow the instructions [here](../../measure-android/README.md#getting-started).

# Features

Measure Android Gradle Plugin makes integrating Measure into any Android app easy. It provides the
following features:

* **[Automatic Instrumentation](#automatic-instrumentation)**
* **[Upload Mapping Files](#upload-mapping-files)**
* **[App Size](#app-size)**

## Automatic Instrumentation

Most instrumentation is done directly in the Measure SDK. However, in some cases, the code to instrument is either in a
third party library or requires a lot of manual events to be added.
This gradle plugin makes Measure a drop-in solution, by using bytecode manipulation to automatically instrument your
app, using [ASM](https://asm.ow2.io/). It is a heavily used tool in the Java ecosystem, and is used by Android Gradle
Plugin and AndroidX libraries itself to transform classes.

We apply the following transformations to your app, provided your app uses these dependencies:

### OkHttp

Enables tracking network requests and metrics from OkHttp.
This is done by injecting an [Interceptor](https://square.github.io/okhttp/features/interceptors/)
and an [EventListener](https://square.github.io/okhttp/features/events/#eventlistener) into
all `OkHttpClient's`used by your application, including the ones in third party libraries.

Note that, OkHttp allows only one `EventListener`(https://square.github.io/okhttp/features/events/#eventlistener). If
you already set one, it will continue working as is. Measure plugin does not override it, rather delegates all callbacks
to it.

### AndroidX Navigation

Automatically tracks screen transition events from
the [AndroidX Navigation](https://developer.android.com/guide/navigation)
library. This is done by automatically
adding [NavController.OnDestinationChangedListener](https://developer.android.com/reference/androidx/navigation/NavController.OnDestinationChangedListener)
to all the `NavHostController's` in your app.

## Upload Mapping Files

> [!TIP]
> Make sure `sh.measure.android.API_KEY` is set in the manifest file of your app for this feature to work. Without this
> the build will fail. Read more about it [here](../../measure-android/README.md#getting-started).


Measure requires the mapping files generated by Proguard or R8 to de-obfuscate stack traces for
providing meaningful crash reports. The plugin automatically uploads these mapping files to Measure.

This feature works automatically for any app which has `minifyEnabled` set to true. The gradle plugin will upload the
mapping files to Measure after a `assemble<Variant>` or `bundle<Variant>` task completes successfully.

As of now only Proguard/R8 are supported.

## App Size

> [!TIP]
> Make sure `sh.measure.android.API_KEY` is set in the manifest file of your app for this feature to work. Without this
> the build will fail. Read more about it [here](../../measure-android/README.md#getting-started).

Measure automatically calculates and tracks the size of your app over time. Measure supports tracking size for both APKs
and AABs. The plugin automatically uploads the size information to Measure after a `assemble<Variant>`
or `bundle<Variant>` task completes successfully.

### APK Size

The plugin calculates APK size by using
apkanalyzer [download-size](https://developer.android.com/tools/apkanalyzer#commands) command, which is the
same tool used by Android Studio to calculate APK sizes. The APK size captured represents the estimated download size of
the APK for the end user.

### AAB Size

The plugin calculates AAB size by using bundletool's [get-size total](https://developer.android.com/tools/bundletool)
command. The AAB size captured represents the maximum size of the APK that can be generated from the AAB.

Read more about AAB format [here](https://developer.android.com/guide/app-bundle).

> [!IMPORTANT]   
> Mapping files and app size are uploaded when the `assemble<variant>` or `bundle<variant>>` task completes
> successfully. A configuration to control which variants to enable/disable these features per variant for is not yet
> ready. The progress can be tracked [here](https://github.com/measure-sh/measure/issues/510).
